Creating Your First Django App
Migrating the Database

When we started the server, Django gave us an error message that there were unapplied migrations:

You have 15 unapplied migration(s).
Your project may not work properly until you apply the migrations for app(s): auth, contenttypes, sessions.
Run 'python manage.py migrate' to apply them.

A migration is a pending database change. As we saw in settings.py, by default, Django will have some apps installed.
Some of these default apps, for example, the admin interface, use the database and the migrations must be applied to the SQLite database.

Whenever we make changes to the model of the database, we must apply the changes by running python3 manage.py migrate.
After applying the migration, when we run the server our errors are gone.

By applying our migration, we have access to the admin app!
The admin app comes pre-installed and can be navigated to since it has its URL provided in urls.py we saw earlier.
At the moment there aren’t any admin users but we can still visit localhost/admin to see the admin login page.
Instructions
1.

In the terminal, cd into the root project directory, djangovet/, and apply the database migration with python3 manage.py migrate in the terminal.
After running the commands, please click “Check Work”.
Checkpoint 2 Passed

The migrate command must be run in the root project folder. Run cd djangovet to change to the root directory.
2.

Start the server on port 0.0.0.0:4001 and see that the error messages are gone!
Checkpoint 3 Passed

Start the server on port 4001 by running python3 manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:4001 in the terminal.
This must be done in the root project directory, djangovet/. Make sure to click “Check work” when you are ready!
3.

In the workspace browser, navigate to the admin page at localhost/admin.
You should see an admin login page. Click on “Check work” when you are ready.
Checkpoint 4 Passed

Use the workspace browser to navigate to localhost/admin.
Concept Review
Want to quickly review some of the concepts you’ve been learning? Take a look at this material's cheatsheet!
