
Models and Databases
Migrations - makemigrations

From when we first created our project, we’ve configured some database settings and let our project know about our app in settings.py.
Now we need to let our database know about our models.

This step of setting the database to match the structure of the models is called migration.
https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/topics/migrations/

Remember, migrations are needed when we make changes to our models — and we’ve just made two new ones!

In Django, there are two steps necessary to make this migration happen:

    Running python3 manage.py makemigrations to create a file with the instructions needed for our database to create the proper schemas.
    Running python3 manage.py migrate to execute the instructions in our file to create the actual tables in our database.

We’ll first focus on makemigrations. Since we need to use manage.py to execute this step, we need to be in our root folder to execute:

python3 manage.py makemigrations

Using our hypothetical Flower and Gardener example, we should see something similar to:

Migrations for 'gardens':
  gardens/migrations/0001_initial.py
    - Create model Flower
    - Create model Gardener

We can also provide an additional argument after makemigrations and specify a chosen app’s models we want to commit.
For instance, if we had two apps Garden and FlowerShop and we only wanted to commit the models for Garden, we could execute the command: python3 manage.py makemigrations garden.

The files created from this step live in the migrations folder within our app directory.
Our first migration file would begin with 0001_initial.py.
We can refer to our migrations using the starting numbers, in this case, it has a migration name of 0001.

It’s important that every time we need to make a change to the schema in our database we need to do this makemigrations step!
Subsequent migration files will increase the number at the beginning of the file.
For example, the second migration will begin with 0002_xxxxx.py and so forth.

We’ll run the makemigrations step now and then follow up with the next step in the next exercise.
https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/django-admin/#django-admin-makemigrations


Instructions
1.

You should already be in the project’s root folder. In the terminal, type out and execute the command:

python3 manage.py makemigrations

After you’ve created this migration file, check vetoffice/migrations/ folder to see that it now has a file called: 0001_initial.py!

When you open 0001_initial.py, you’ll see Python code providing the instructions for your database later.
Concept Review
Want to quickly review some of the concepts you’ve been learning? Take a look at this material's cheatsheet!
"""
